.TH "MAIL.ACL" "5" "December 2009"
.SH NAME
.B mail.acl \- mail access control list for mopher
.SH INTRODUCTION
The mopher daemon
.BR mopherd (1)
uses 2 configuration files
.BR mopherd.conf (5)
and
.BR mail.acl (5).
The former controls the behaviour of the daemon itself while the latter
controls how incoming mail is filtered. By default
.B mopherd
looks for both configuration files in
.I /etc/mopher
\&. Alternative locations may be specified using the
.B mopherd
command line argument -c for
.B mopherd.conf
or the configuration directive acl_path for
.B mail.acl
\&. For more information see the respective man pages.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.B mail.acl
contains information about how
.B mopherd
should filter incoming email. A statement is either a rule or a definition.
Statements may spawn multiple lines. Multiple whitespaces and emtpy lines are
ignored. # starts a comment until the end of the line.
.SH DEFINITIONS
Definitions can be used as shorthands for long or frequently used expressions.
A definition starts with the keyword
.I define
followed by an
.I identifier 
followed by an
.I expression.
See EXPRESSIONS above.
.SH RULES
The syntax of mail.acl was derived from common firewall configuration.
.P
stage [expression] action
.P
The rules for a specific stage are checked in order. The stage refers to the stage
in SMTP transaction according to libmilter. If an expression matches the action takes place.
.SH EXPRESSIONS
.SH SYMBOLS
.SH FUNCTIONS
.SH VARIABLES
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
# Tarpit hosts based on their reputation. The symbols rbl_firstrbl and
# rbl_secondrbl need to be configured in mopherd.conf. To minimize RBL lookups
# we jump to the BAD_HOST ACL.
.P
.R connect milter_hostname == \"unknown\" jump BAD_HOST
.R connect rbl_firstrbl jump BAD_HOST
.R connect rbl_secondrbl jump BAD_HOST
.R connect tarpit 10s
.P
.R BAD_HOST set $bad_host = 1
.R BAD_HOST tarpit 30s
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mopherd (1),
.BR mopherd.conf (5)
.SH AUTHORS
This manuel page was written by Manuel Badzong <manuel@mopher.net>.
